.TH FLYBY 1 "8 June 2017" "LA1K" "LA1K"
.SH NAME
flyby \- Track and predict passes of satellites in Earth orbit

.SH SYNOPSIS
flyby [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Flyby is a multi-user satellite tracking and orbital prediction
program written under the Linux operating system.

See docs/usage_guide.md for detailed usage instructions.

.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS

\fB--add-tle-file=FILE\fP
Add TLE file to flyby's TLE database. The base filename of the input file will be used for the internal file, so any existing file with this filename will be overwritten.

\fB-u,--update-tle-db=FILE\fP
Update TLE database with TLE file FILE. Multiple files can be specified using the same option multiple times (e.g. -u file1 -u file2 ...). Flyby will exit afterwards. Any new TLEs in the file will be ignored.

\fB-t,--tle-file=FILE\fP
Use FILE as TLE database file. Overrides user and system TLE database files. Multiple files can be specified using this option multiple times (e.g. -t file1 -t file2 ...).

\fB-q,--qth-file=FILE\fP
Use FILE as QTH config file. Overrides existing QTH config file.

\fB-A,--rotctld-tracking[=HOST[:PORT]\fP
Connect to a rotctld server and enable antenna tracking. Optionally specify host and port, otherwise use localhost:4533.

\fB-H,--tracking-horizon=HORIZON\fP
Specify elevation threshold for when flyby will start tracking an orbit.

\fB-U,--rigctld-uplink[=HOST[:PORT]]\fP
Connect to rigctld and enable uplink frequency control. Optionally specify host and port, otherwise use localhost:4532.

\fB--uplink-vfo=VFO_NAME\fP
Specify rigctld uplink VFO.

\fB-D,--rigctld-downlink[=HOST[:PORT]\fP
Connect to rigctld and enable downlink frequency control. Optionally specify host and port, otherwise use localhost:4532.

\fB--downlink-vfo=VFO_NAME\fP
Specify rigctld downlink VFO.

\fB-h,--help\fP
Show help.

.SH AUTOMATIC ANTENNA TRACKING/RADIO TUNING

Flyby will support any rotor controller or rig that
is supported by hamlib. Flyby achieves this by sending
rotator or frequency commands over sockets made available
by \fBrotctld\fP and \fBrigctld\fP. In single track mode,
this can be used to automatically control AZ/EL antenna rotators
and keep the antennas pointed towards the satellite being tracked,
and automatically adjust for doppler shifts.

Flyby waits for acknowledgment of
the previous command before it sends the position.  This prevents
queuing of commands when using a slow rotator controller.

Examples:

	\fIflyby -Alocalhost\fP

will send AZ/EL tracking data to localhost on the default rotctld port (4533).

	\fI flyby -Dlocalhost\fP

will send downlink frequency updates to localhost on the default rigctld port (4532) and VFO.

	\fI flyby -Dlocalhost --downlink-vfo VFOA -Ulocalhost --uplink-vfo VFOB\fP

will send downlink and uplink frequency updates to localhost on the default rigctld port, with downlink on VFOA and uplink on VFOB.

Rotctld tracking starts when the satellite comes
above the horizon. A negative horizon may be set using the \fI-H\fP
command line option. If the default horizon (0.0) is used, the antenna
will not start moving before AOS. A negative horizon will let the
antenna rotate into position before AOS.

See also command line options above and the usage guide in docs/usage_guide.md for more options.

.SH FILES

Flyby follows the XDG base directory specification. In the following, it is assumed that $XDG_DATA_HOME and other XDG environment variables are unset and the default locations are used, however, flyby will support respecification of these environment variables.

TLE files:

Multiple TLE files are supported. TLE files will be searched for in the following locations in the listed order of precedence:

- $HOME/.local/share/flyby/tles

- /usr/share/flyby/tles

- /usr/local/share/flyby/tles

All TLEs are merged into a single database within the program. The most recent TLE for multiply defined TLEs at the same level of precedence is selected, while the TLE at the higher order of precedence is selected over a lower order regardless of the epoch date.

Using \fI--add-tle-file\fP to add a TLE file will put the file in $HOME/.local/share/flyby/tles. Using \fI-u\fP to provide updated TLEs will only update TLEs that are already present in flyby's database.

Configuration files and transponder database files are either set from within flyby or by using external tools, but are in any case listed below:

Configuration files:

- flyby.qth: QTH information. Assumed to be within /etc/xdg/flyby/ or $HOME/.config/flyby/, with the latter taking precedence. Flyby will ask for ground station coordinates if unspecified.

- flyby.whitelist: List over enabled satellites. Assumed to be within $HOME/.config/flyby/. Changed by enabling/disabling satellites.

- multitrack_settings.conf: Specifies current multitrack sorting settings. Assumed to be within $HOME/.config/flyby/. Changed by modifying the multitrack sorting settings.

Transponder database files:

The transponder database file is searched for in the following locations, in the following order of precedence:

- $HOME/.local/share/flyby/flyby.db

- /usr/share/flyby/flyby.db

- /usr/local/share/flyby/flyby.db

.SH CONVENIENCE UTILITIES

\fBflyby-update-tles\fP can be used to automatically fetch the most recent TLEs and update the database.

\fBflyby-satnogs-fetcher\fP can be used to fetch the current SatNOGS transponder database and add it to flyby. By specifying a filename (\fIflyby-satnogs-fetcher [filename]\fP), \fBflyby-transponder-dbutil\fP can be used to add the database entries using more options, see \fBflyby-transponder-dbutil --help\fP.

.SH AUTHORS
Flyby is written by Norvald H. Ryeng (LA6YKA), Knut Magnus Kvamtrø (LA3DPA), Thomas Ingebretsen (LA9ERA)
and Asgeir Bjorgan (LA9SSA). The flyby code is based on predict-g1yyh from the Debian Project, which
is an extended version of PREDICT by John A. Magliacane (KD2BD) and others. For full details, see
the AUTHORS file.

This manpage is partially based on PREDICT's original manpage.

Flyby is free software. You can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License or any
later version.

Flyby is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
for more details.
