.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH PREDICT-G1YYH 1
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
predict-g1yyh \- satellite tracking program
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B predict-g1yyh 
program is a variant on the 
.B predict 
satellite tracking program that includes patches from John Heaton, G1YYH, 
that add new functionality.  This man page documents only the features that
differ between 
.B predict
and
.B predict-g1yyh.
See the 
.B predict
man page for information on the features of the program that are not described
here!
.PP
The user may step forwards/backwards through the satellites in the Single-Sat 
display using the '+' and '-' keys, and may remove blank entries from the 
Selector page.
.PP
MultiSat has been reformatted to display upcoming passes below the satellites 
in view. Using the 'i' and 'k' keys you can toggle between distances in 
Imperial or Kilometres.  
Using the 'l' and 'm' keys you can toggle between displaying the normal 
latitude/longitude or Maidenhead locators for the sub-satellite location.
.PP
The SingleSat display allows use of the arrow keys to change the frequency
up/down and to move to the next/previous satellite using left/right arrows.
.PP
A new method of selecting satellites is implemented.  Instead of
pressing a character next to a satellite name, a scrolling menu is provided.
This means that the program is now capable of handling a much larget list
of satellites, currently a maximum of 250.  
.PP
Finally, the height of the terminal window containing predict can be increased
dynamically if you want to display more information than will fit on an 80x24
terminal window!
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR predict (1),
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Bdale Garbee <bdale@gag.com>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
